Ingredients for Honey Mustard Chicken Thighs Recipe
8 chicken thighs, bone-in and skin-on

Salt and pepper to taste

3 tablespoons olive oil, divided

1 shallot

10 ounces cremini mushrooms, divided

1 tablespoon sherry vinegar

5 ounces arugula

1/3 cup fresh parsley, divided

HONEY MUSTARD SAUCE

½ cup honey

½ cup mustard (I used a combination of whole grain, yellow, and spicy dijon mustard)

3 tablespoons mayonnaise (optional)

¾ cup chicken stock

Method
Prepare Honey Mustard Sauce: Whisk together the honey, mustard, mayonnaise, and chicken stock. Set aside.

Prepare Ingredients: Preheat oven to 400ºF. Pat the chicken thighs dry and season with salt and pepper. Mince the shallot. Rub any dirt off the mushrooms. Remove the stems and set aside. In a food processor, combine the stems and five mushroom caps and pulse until finely minced. Slice the remaining caps. Finely chop the parsley.

Cook the Chicken: Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium-high. Add the chicken, skin-side down, and cook for 5-7 minutes without moving until the skin is crisp and the fat has rendered. Cook the chicken in batches if necessary to avoid over-crowding the pan. Once the chicken skin has browned, transfer the chicken thighs, skin-side up, to a large baking or casserole dish. Set aside.

Now it’s time to prepare the sauce! Prepare the Honey Mustard Sauce: Drain off all but 1 tablespoon of fat from the skillet. Add 1 tablespoon of oil to the skillet and return the skillet to medium high heat. Add the shallot and the minced mushroom stems and cook until softened and beginning to brown. Turn the heat to high and continue cooking for another minute or two. Add the honey mustard sauce and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and cook for 5-10 minutes until reduced slightly and thickened. Pour the sauce over the chicken and transfer the baking dish to the oven for about 20 minutes or until the chicken registers 165ºF with an instant read thermometer.

Prepare the Mushrooms and Arugula: During the last 10 minutes of the chicken baking, prepare the arugula and mushrooms. Wipe out the skillet used to cook the honey mustard sauce and add the remaining tablespoon of oil. Turn the heat to medium high and once shimmering and very hot, add the sliced mushroom caps and season with salt and pepper. Cook for 8-12 minutes, stirring often, until well-browned. Add the sherry and scrape up any browned bits stuck to the bottom of the skillet. Once the sherry has been absorbed by the mushrooms (About 2 minutes of cooking), add the arugula and all but a pinch or two of the chopped parsley and season with salt and pepper. Cook for about 2-3 minutes or until the arugula has just wilted. Remove from heat and keep warm.

To Serve: Divide the arugula and mushrooms between shallow bowls. Place a chicken thigh on top and ladle the honey mustard sauce over the dish. Serve with a sprinkle of the remaining chopped parsley on each dish. Enjoy!
