Prep Time 5 minutes
Cook Time 40 minutes
Total Time 45 minutes
Servings 6
Calories 288 kcal
Author Marjorie @APinchOfHealthy
Ingredients
	•	 1 whole chicken mine was 4.3 pounds
	•	 1 and 1/2 teaspoons salt
	•	 1/2 teaspoon pepper
	•	 1 teaspoon granulated garlic
	•	 1 teaspoon paprika
	•	 1 and 3/4 Tablespoons avocado oil (or you can use coconut or canola - something with a high smoke point)
	•	 1 yellow onion quartered (optional)
	•	 1 lemon halved (optional)
	•	 1 cup chicken stock or broth
	•	￼
Get Ingredients
Powered by Chicory
Instructions
	1.	Remove all parts from the chicken cavity; rinse and pat dry with a paper towel. 
	2.	Optional: place the onion and lemon in the cavity of the chicken. 
	3.	Combine all of the spices, including salt and pepper, in a small ramekin dish; stir together. 
	4.	 ￼ 
	5.	Add the oil to the spices, and stir until incorporated. 
	6.	 ￼ 
	7.	Turn on your Instant Pot to preheat on the sauté setting on "normal." 
	8.	Rub the oil and spice mixture on the breast side of the chicken. 
	1.	Place the chicken, breast side down, in the preheated Instant Pot. 
	2.	Carefully rub the other half of the oil and spices mixture on the other side of the chicken. 
	3.	Allow the breast side to crisp up the chicken skin for a few minutes, about 3 to 4 minutes total. 
	4.	Carefully flip the chicken over to the other side, and let it crisp up the skin on the other side for about a minute. Flipping it over was a little awkward, but it helps to use a sturdy burger flipper and some tongs. 
	5.	Optional step: If you do not want your chicken sitting in the liquids, you can remove the chicken after it browns on the second side and place the trivet in the pot. Then place the chicken, breast side up, on the trivet. 
	6.	Add in the chicken stock. 
	7.	Place the lid on and lock it, per Instant Pot instructions. 
	8.	Set to manual high pressure for 25 minutes.  
	9.	Allow the Instant Pot to depressurize naturally (I.e., do not use the venting lever, but allow the pressure to dissipate slowly. Mine took about 15 minutes) 
	10.	Remove the lid, and transfer the chicken to a serving plate. Mine was so tender that it was falling apart a little! 
	11.	Let the chicken rest for about 5 minutes prior to serving. 
	12.	I like to spoon or brush a little of the cooking liquid over the top just prior to serving to make the chicken extra juicy. 


