INGREDIENTS
2 inches fresh ginger
1 1/2 pounds chicken breasts
1 1/2 teaspoons coarse sea salt
ground black pepper, to taste
1 1/2 teaspoons apple cider vinegar
1 Japanese eggplant
1 zucchini
1 yellow squash
1 1/2 red bell peppers
3 green onions
1/4 cup arrowroot (any flour will do)
1/4 cup coconut oil, for frying
2 tablespoons minced garlic
3/4 teaspoon crushed red pepper, optional
1 1/2 teaspoons sesame seeds
1 1/2 tablespoons sesame oil
For the sauce:
3 tablespoons coconut aminos (sub soy sauce)
3 tablespoons chicken broth, or water
1 1/2 tablespoons apple cider vinegar, or coconut vinegar

HOW TO PREPARE
1.	Peel and grate the fresh ginger. Cut the chicken into thin bite size pieces against the grain (about 1/4-inch thick). Season with sea salt, pepper, vinegar, and half of the grated ginger. Allow to marinate while preparing the vegetables.
2.	Quarter the eggplant, zucchini and squash. Remove seeds and white interior from bell pepper. Then slice into 2 inch pieces.
3.	Combine the sauce ingredients and set aside. Dice green onions.
4.	Heat a wok or large pan over medium high heat. Meanwhile, dredge the chicken pieces in arrowroot powder.
5.	Add 1/2 of the coconut oil to the pan. Add the chicken pieces in one layer and cook 1 minute on each side - it does not need to be cooked through at this point. Transfer to a plate.
6.	With the pan still over medium-high heat, add remaining coconut oil.
7.	Stir in the green onions, garlic, and remaining ginger and cook just enough to release their flavors into the cooking oil - about 15 seconds. Add the vegetables and stir-fry until just softened.
8.	Push the vegetables to the sides of the skillet and stir in the sauce in the middle. Turn the heat up high.
10.	Stir-fry everything except the chicken together for one or two minutes until the sauce is well incorporated; then stir in sesame oil, sesame seeds, and optional crushed red pepper. 
11. Top with chicken, don't stir it in, to keep it from getting wet and losing its crisp.
12. Serve hot.
